Welcome back everyone.
I know some of you have been curious about all these things about web pack and Babel that we occasionally
mentioned throughout this course.
If you remember from one of the initial lessons that we taught the big thing about create react app
is that it hides away all of the babble and all of the web pack configurations that you would normally
have to figure out.
It's one of the big advantages of create react out because web pack and babble have a lot of possible
configurations that you have to do.
However if you just wanted to get started with a react application having to learn those two new technologies
is a big overhead.
But now that we've gotten really good at react and using create react app I think it's about time that
I show you Web pack and babble.
I'm gonna show you how we can actually set up our ReACT application to run Web Park and babble in a
very easy and efficient way.
I'm going to show you with as little code as possible so that you can understand what is happening with
Westpac as well as babble.
Both are actually quite simple.
And with the newest versions they've really reduced the amount of configuration that you have to do
for either.
So in this lesson we're really really going to look at the bare bones of what we need to setup.
So we truly and deeply understand the concepts.
So with Westpac what you can do is actually go to this link.
I'm going to provide you inside of your resources and it's going to take you to this repo this repo
I have is just the most fundamental bare bones react implementation before any web pack has been included.
So simply fork this project so that you get a copy of it and then once it's finished forking simply
clone it down.
So you're gonna click your own and you're going to click clone and make sure to use H2 G.P.S. if you
are not set up your assets H if you have set up as H then you go with SSA H.
Otherwise use HDTV yes.
So just copy this key and what we're going to do is go to our terminal and we are just going to clone
it down now I'm going to call mine Westpac project because of course I made this project so I have the
same name already.
But let's just clone down whatever name you want I'm gonna call my Westpac project and seeds into it.
Now let's take a look at what we have currently and what we're going to look at is just inside our resource
folder.
So so far it's a very simple application.
It has an app ASX and all we import inside app just X is react our style sheet and then all we have
defined is this app div with a card div and inside as an H1 that says our is working.
The most simple app component that you can imagine.
So what I do is export this out by default and bring it into index yes.
So as you're used to by now this index that J J.S. file is where we're going to enter from our application.
So in here I also import react and react Om I import our app component that I just made and then I render
the app and I replace the elements with the idea of root.
We can find that inside of this index that HDMI I'll file that in the body.
There's just this simple div with an idea of root.
This is as simple of a setup as possible but we have a react component.
We have some styles and we want to output a optimised build with all of this converted into a version
of JavaScript that our brows can understand.
So we understand all this about react already we know about web pack we know about babble what they
do mostly is that babble allows us to convert files into other files that our browser can understand.
That's web PAC's purpose.
So this J.S. X code we've written this J.S. code even the H2 amount and the CSX all of this is currently
in a format where we're importing it in in a style that older browsers can understand this import style
comes with iOS 6 and iOS 6 doesn't work for some browsers because they only support iOS 5.
So this is what web Park's main goal is is that web pack wants to help us convert all of this code into
versions that browsers can understand.
So let's actually explore this in order for us to use web pack.
We have to bring it into our application.
So I'm using yarn you can use NPM if you prefer NPM.
One thing to note with NPM is that every time we install a project you have to make sure that whatever
we install at the end you append dash dash save dash Dev because these are developer dependencies and
not regular dependencies with ya and you don't have to do this.
This is just the thing to keep note to get started.
We need to add two packages.
The first is web pack.
The second is web pack CLIA.
So it's got to be you can't ad so these two packages allow us to begin using web pack inside of our
application in order to use web pack.
There's two things that we got to add to our actual application.
The first is a file inside of our root folder called Web pack Doc config Dutch us when we run a web
pack what pack will automatically know to look for this file and in order for us to actually run what
pack we have to add a new script inside of our scripts object here in our package that Jason so what
will add is this build script and this build script is just going to run Webb pack dash dash mode production.
So this is saying that I want to run Westpac use the configure Asian Doc J.S. file and then I want spit
out a production built.
So this is similar to pretty much what we see create react app does when we run our build script in
our project before it was just hiding all of this away for us.
The thing is that inside of our Web config what we're going to do is we have to remember that here we
don't have 6 syntax.
We have to use the old yes five syntax.
So in order for us to export out anything we have to say module exports equals this object because what
we're trying to export out of this file is this object of configuration options.
We're going to say module and we're going to define this thing called rules.
So inside of Westpac it's got many modules that you can run the first one is rules.
Rules is a way to define Westpac what it needs to do based on certain file types that it encounters.
Now what do I mean by this.
Well as we know we are writing just tax code or yes 6 J S code Westpac doesn't need to convert CSX code
over into jazz code because with CSX code if it's using SAS or for using some other version of a CSX
library that does not come by default with most browsers.
We need a different set of rules than our javascript rules because we need a different set of loaders
than javascript loaders.
And this actually brings us to the concept of loaders but we'll talk about it once we start writing
out the rules object.
So what we're gonna say is we are going to say that this test string is what we want to match against.
So what type of file extensions we want to match against.
Now here you're going to actually have to write a little bit a regex and it's actually not so hard.
I'm going to give you a regex builder but we're going to say that inside of these slash marks that we
want to look up any files that end with the dot and then we're gonna say J S or J ASX and then you add
the dollar sign to empty or to end the actual test.
So this is just saying I want you to find me any files with the extension dodgy or dodgy.
That's all it is after this.
We want to exclude our node modules because we don't want to run or build any of our node module coat
the packages that we download already optimized they don't need to run through any of these loaders
they're already converted ahead of time or they should be at least a good library is and then what we're
going to say is this use property so they use property tells what pack.
What Loder needs to run and the loader is going to be the helper that actually converts this code into
the actual version so you can kind of see Westpac as the coordinator and the loaders as the actual packages
that trans pile.
This code down into the version that we want it to be.
And here is where we're going to use babble because babble is the library that helps transpire javascript
and ASX down into older versions of javascript.
So we're going to include in a couple other libraries related to babble so we'll go back to our terminal
and what we're going to do is we are going to say yawn ad at babble core.
So we want the core babble library we want at babble slash preset end.
And this library the preset end comes with transpiring.
Yes 6 down to yes 5.
That's all that library does.
We also want babble slash preset react.
Now of course babble can convert everything it can convert view it can convert angular it can convert
Aurora they can convert all kinds of different javascript libraries down you just have to pick the specific
ones you want.
That's why it's all app babble slash.
And then the name of the smaller library one include.
We also need to include the babble Loder.
So these ones were for our actual babble configuration the babble loader is just so that we have the
babble loader for Westpac and once we have this we can go back to our application and now what we're
going to add in is inside of here we're gonna say at the loader we want to use the babble loader.
Now what babble loader knows to do is look inside of our root directory for a file called Babble R C
so the babble c file is going to be the file that tells babble what it needs to transpire down to.
And here we're just simply going to create an object where the presets is the property that points to
an array and inside of this array we're going to include those two presets we included the first one
was preset env which as I explained converts yes six down to yes five.
And we're also going to include babble preset react so this compiles react down into iOS 5 or another
version of JavaScript HBO Now that our browser understands so if you've ever been curious why is it
that you can put dodgy s or dodgy X in our code always works well under the hood.
This is what's happening create react is doing the exact same thing it's just taking all of our dodgy
s and dodgy OS X Files and running it through the babble loader anyways that's why even though you're
writing g x x code and appending your files Doc J s your code still works.
This is the loader that's doing that for you so hopefully with this we now understand what it is that
babble dit babble is very simple it is a loader inside of Westpac that converts JavaScript files into
old JavaScript files it uses certain types of presets that you pass to it and of course there's other
configuration options you can add if you want to be more explicit you can find those in the documentation
that I'm gonna link in the resources but this is the base that we need in order to convert our application
down so what this hopefully we at least understand what babble does with JavaScript now we can't test
this until the very end once we set up some other things which we'll do in the next lesson but conceptually
this is all web hack and babble do so let's move on with the next lesson.